"Haunted House" by "BASIC Game Conversion"

The story headline is "An Adventure in a Haunted House".
The story description is "You find yourself at a haunted house. Can you collect all the treasures and escape?".
The story creation year is 2025.

Volume - Game Setup

Book - Setup and Constants

Use scoring.
The maximum score is 34. [17 treasures, double score if you return to gate with all treasures]

When play begins:
	say "HAUNTED HOUSE[line break]----------------------[line break]Find the treasures and return to the gate to win!";
	now the left hand status line is "[location]";
	now the right hand status line is "Score: [score]/[maximum score]".

The player has a number called light-level. The light-level of the player is 60.
The player has a truth state called has-lit-candle. The has-lit-candle of the player is false.

Every turn:
	if the has-lit-candle of the player is true:
		decrease the light-level of the player by 1;
		if the light-level of the player is 10:
			say "Your candle is waning!";
		if the light-level of the player is 1:
			say "Your candle is out!";
			now the has-lit-candle of the player is false;
	if the location is Dark-Corner or the location is Bottom-of-Spiral-Staircase or the location is Small-Dark-Room or the location is Gloomy-Passage:
		if the has-lit-candle of the player is false:
			say "It's too dark to move!";
	if a random chance of 1 in 3 succeeds and the location is Rear-Turret-Room and attacking-bats is true:
		say "Bats attacking!";
	if a random chance of 1 in 2 succeeds and the location is Very-Cold-Chamber:
		if the vacuum is switched on:
			do nothing;
		otherwise:
			now the attacking-ghosts is true.

After looking:
	repeat with item running through things in the location:
		if the item is not fixed in place and the item is not the player and the item is visible:
			say "You can see [item] here.";
	say "============================"

Book - Objects and Properties

A thing can be fixed in place. A thing is usually not fixed in place.
The description of a thing is usually "You see nothing special about [the item described]."

Book - Game Command Extensions

Understand "score" as requesting the score.

Understand "help" as asking for help. Asking for help is an action applying to nothing.
Carry out asking for help:
	say "Words I know: help, inventory, go, north, south, west, east, up, down, take, drop, open, examine, read, say, dig, swing, climb, light, unlight, spray, use, unlock, leave, score.";
	
Understand "dig" as digging. Digging is an action applying to nothing.
Carry out digging:
	if the player carries the shovel:
		if the location is Cellar-with-Barred-Window:
			say "You dug the bars out.";
			now the description of Cellar-with-Barred-Window is "A cellar with a hole in the wall.";
			now the east exit of Cellar-with-Barred-Window is Cliff-Path2;
		otherwise:
			say "You made a hole.";
	otherwise:
		say "You have nothing to dig with.";

Understand "climb" as climbing. Climbing is an action applying to nothing.
Carry out climbing:
	if the location is Blasted-Tree:
		if the rope is in Blasted-Tree:
			if the player has elevated:
				say "Going down!";
				now the player has not elevated;
			otherwise:
				say "You see thick forest and cliff south.";
				now the player has elevated;
		otherwise:
			say "There's nothing to climb here.";
	otherwise:
		say "There's nothing to climb here.";

The player can have elevated. The player is not elevated.

Understand "swing [something]" as swinging. Swinging is an action applying to one thing.
Carry out swinging:
	if the noun is the axe and the player carries the axe:
		say "You swung it.";
		if the location is Study-with-Desk:
			say "You broke the thin wall!";
			now the west exit of Study-with-Desk is Weird-Cobwebby-Room;
			now the description of Study-with-Desk is "Study with secret room.";
	otherwise if the noun is the rope and the player carries the rope:
		say "Whoosh!";
		if the location is Study-with-Desk:
			say "You broke the thin wall!";
			now the west exit of Study-with-Desk is Weird-Cobwebby-Room;
			now the description of Study-with-Desk is "Study with secret room.";
	otherwise:
		say "This is no time to play games.";

Understand "light [something]" as lighting. Lighting is an action applying to one thing.
Carry out lighting:
	if the noun is the candle and the player carries the candle:
		if the player does not carry the matches:
			say "Nothing to light it with.";
		otherwise if the player does not carry the candlestick:
			say "It will burn your hands.";
		otherwise:
			say "It casts a flickering light.";
			now the has-lit-candle of the player is true;
	otherwise:
		say "You can't light that.";

Understand "unlight" as unlighting. Unlighting is an action applying to nothing.
Carry out unlighting:
	if the has-lit-candle of the player is true:
		say "Extinguished.";
		now the has-lit-candle of the player is false;
	otherwise:
		say "Nothing to extinguish.";

Understand "spray [something]" as spraying. Spraying is an action applying to one thing.
Carry out spraying:
	if the noun is the bats and the player carries the aerosol:
		say "Hissss...";
		if the attacking-bats is true:
			say "Pfft! Got them.";
			now the attacking-bats is false;
	otherwise:
		say "You can't spray that.";

The bats are a thing. The bats are fixed in place.
Attacking-bats is a truth state that varies. Attacking-bats is true.

The ghosts are a thing. The ghosts are fixed in place.
Attacking-ghosts is a truth state that varies. Attacking-ghosts is false.

Understand "use [something]" as using. Using is an action applying to one thing.
Carry out using:
	if the noun is the vacuum and the player carries the vacuum and the player carries the batteries:
		say "Switched on.";
		now the vacuum is switched on;
		if the attacking-ghosts is true:
			say "Whizz - vacuumed the ghosts up!";
			now the attacking-ghosts is false;
	otherwise:
		say "You can't use that right now.";

The vacuum can be switched on or switched off. The vacuum is switched off.

Understand "say [text]" as saying. Saying is an action applying to one topic.
Carry out saying:
	say "Ok '[topic understood]'";
	if the topic understood matches the text "xzanfar" and the player carries the magic-spells:
		say "*magic occurs*";
		if the location is Deep-Cellar-with-Coffin:
			say "The magical barrier has been broken!";
			now the magical-barrier is false;
		otherwise:
			let random-room be a random room;
			now the player is in random-room;
	otherwise:
		do nothing;

Magical-barrier is a truth state that varies. Magical-barrier is true.

Volume - Game World

Book - Room Layout

[First row (0-7)]
Dark-Corner is a room. "A dark corner."
Overgrown-Garden is a room. "An overgrown garden."
By-Large-Woodpile is a room. "By a large woodpile."
Yard-by-Rubbish is a room. "Yard by rubbish."
Weedpatch is a room. "A weedpatch."
Forest is a room. "A forest."
Thick-Forest is a room. "A thick forest."
Blasted-Tree is a room. "A blasted tree."

[Second row (8-15)]
Corner-of-House is a room. "Corner of house."
Entrance-to-Kitchen is a room. "Entrance to kitchen."
Kitchen is a room. "Kitchen with a grimy cooker."
Scullery-Door is a room. "Scullery door."
Room-with-Inches-of-Dust is a room. "A room with inches of dust."
Rear-Turret-Room is a room. "Rear turret room."
Clearing-by-House is a room. "Clearing by house."
Path is a room. "A path."

[Third row (16-23)]
Side-of-House is a room. "Side of house."
Back-of-Hallway is a room. "Back of hallway."
Dark-Alcove is a room. "A dark alcove."
Small-Dark-Room is a room. "A small dark room."
Bottom-of-Spiral-Staircase is a room. "Bottom of spiral staircase."
Wide-Passage is a room. "A wide passage."
Slippery-Steps is a room. "Slippery steps."
Clifftop is a room. "Clifftop."

[Fourth row (24-31)]
Near-Crumbling-Wall is a room. "Near crumbling wall."
Gloomy-Passage is a room. "A gloomy passage."
Pool-of-Light is a room. "Pool of light."
Impressive-Vaulted-Hallway is a room. "An impressive vaulted hallway."
Hall-by-Thick-Wooden-Door is a room. "Hall by thick wooden door."
Trophy-Room is a room. "Trophy room."
Cellar-with-Barred-Window is a room. "Cellar with barred window."
Cliff-Path is a room. "Cliff path."

[Fifth row (32-39)]
Cupboard-with-Hanging-Coat is a room. "Cupboard with hanging coat."
Front-Hall is a room. "Front hall."
Sitting-Room is a room. "Sitting room."
Secret-Room is a room. "Secret room."
Steep-Marble-Stairs is a room. "Steep marble stairs."
Dining-Room is a room. "Dining room."
Deep-Cellar-with-Coffin is a room. "Deep cellar with coffin."
Cliff-Path2 is a room. "Cliff path."

[Sixth row (40-47)]
Closet is a room. "A closet."
Front-Lobby is a room. "Front lobby."
Library-of-Evil-Books is a room. "Library of evil books."
Study-with-Desk is a room. "Study with desk & hole in wall."
Weird-Cobwebby-Room is a room. "A weird cobwebby room."
Very-Cold-Chamber is a room. "A very cold chamber."
Spooky-Room is a room. "A spooky room."
Soggy-Path is a room. "A soggy path."

[Seventh row (48-55)]
Rubble-Strewn-Verandah is a room. "A rubble-strewn verandah."
Front-Porch is a room. "Front porch."
Front-Tower is a room. "Front tower."
Sloping-Corridor is a room. "A sloping corridor."
Upper-Gallery is a room. "Upper gallery."
Marsh-by-Wall is a room. "Marsh by wall."
Marsh is a room. "A marsh."
Soggy-Path2 is a room. "A soggy path."

[Eighth row (56-63)]
By-Twisted-Railing is a room. "By twisted railing."
Path-Through-Iron-Gate is a room. "Path through iron gate."
By-Railings is a room. "By railings."
Beneath-Front-Tower is a room. "Beneath front tower."
Debris-from-Crumbling-Facade is a room. "Debris from crumbling facade."
Large-Fallen-Brickwork is a room. "Large fallen brickwork."
Rotting-Stone-Arch is a room. "Rotting stone arch."
Crumbling-Clifftop is a room. "Crumbling clifftop."

The player is in Path-Through-Iron-Gate.

Book - Room Connections

[Create all the directional connections between rooms based on the BASIC data]
[First row connections]
South of Dark-Corner is Corner-of-House. East of Dark-Corner is Overgrown-Garden.
West of Overgrown-Garden is Dark-Corner. East of Overgrown-Garden is By-Large-Woodpile.
West of By-Large-Woodpile is Overgrown-Garden. East of By-Large-Woodpile is Yard-by-Rubbish.
South of Yard-by-Rubbish is Entrance-to-Kitchen. West of Yard-by-Rubbish is By-Large-Woodpile. East of Yard-by-Rubbish is Weedpatch.
West of Weedpatch is Yard-by-Rubbish. East of Weedpatch is Forest.
West of Forest is Weedpatch. East of Forest is Thick-Forest.
South of Thick-Forest is Clearing-by-House. West of Thick-Forest is Forest. East of Thick-Forest is Blasted-Tree.
West of Blasted-Tree is Thick-Forest. South of Blasted-Tree is Path.

[Second row connections]
North of Corner-of-House is Dark-Corner. South of Corner-of-House is Side-of-House.
South of Entrance-to-Kitchen is Back-of-Hallway. East of Entrance-to-Kitchen is Kitchen.
West of Kitchen is Entrance-to-Kitchen. East of Kitchen is Scullery-Door.
North of Scullery-Door is Yard-by-Rubbish. West of Scullery-Door is Kitchen.
South of Room-with-Inches-of-Dust is Dark-Alcove. East of Room-with-Inches-of-Dust is Rear-Turret-Room.
West of Rear-Turret-Room is Room-with-Inches-of-Dust.
North of Clearing-by-House is Thick-Forest. East of Clearing-by-House is Path.
North of Path is Blasted-Tree. South of Path is Slippery-Steps. West of Path is Clearing-by-House.

[Third row connections]
North of Side-of-House is Corner-of-House. South of Side-of-House is Near-Crumbling-Wall.
North of Back-of-Hallway is Entrance-to-Kitchen. South of Back-of-Hallway is Gloomy-Passage.
North of Dark-Alcove is Room-with-Inches-of-Dust. South of Dark-Alcove is Pool-of-Light. East of Dark-Alcove is Small-Dark-Room.
West of Small-Dark-Room is Dark-Alcove.
North of Bottom-of-Spiral-Staircase is Small-Dark-Room. South of Bottom-of-Spiral-Staircase is Impressive-Vaulted-Hallway. Up of Bottom-of-Spiral-Staircase is Front-Tower. Down of Bottom-of-Spiral-Staircase is Spooky-Room.
South of Wide-Passage is Hall-by-Thick-Wooden-Door. East of Wide-Passage is Bottom-of-Spiral-Staircase.
West of Slippery-Steps is Wide-Passage. South of Slippery-Steps is Clifftop. Up of Slippery-Steps is Front-Porch. Down of Slippery-Steps is Marsh-by-Wall.
North of Clifftop is Slippery-Steps. South of Clifftop is Cliff-Path.

[Fourth row connections]
North of Near-Crumbling-Wall is Side-of-House. South of Near-Crumbling-Wall is Rubble-Strewn-Verandah.
North of Gloomy-Passage is Back-of-Hallway. South of Gloomy-Passage is Front-Lobby.
North of Pool-of-Light is Dark-Alcove. South of Pool-of-Light is Front-Hall. East of Pool-of-Light is Impressive-Vaulted-Hallway.
West of Impressive-Vaulted-Hallway is Pool-of-Light. North of Impressive-Vaulted-Hallway is Bottom-of-Spiral-Staircase. South of Impressive-Vaulted-Hallway is Steep-Marble-Stairs. East of Impressive-Vaulted-Hallway is Hall-by-Thick-Wooden-Door.
West of Hall-by-Thick-Wooden-Door is Impressive-Vaulted-Hallway. East of Hall-by-Thick-Wooden-Door is Trophy-Room.
North of Trophy-Room is Wide-Passage. South of Trophy-Room is Dining-Room. West of Trophy-Room is Hall-by-Thick-Wooden-Door.
North of Cellar-with-Barred-Window is Slippery-Steps. South of Cellar-with-Barred-Window is Deep-Cellar-with-Coffin.
North of Cliff-Path is Clifftop. South of Cliff-Path is Cliff-Path2.

[Fifth row connections]
South of Cupboard-with-Hanging-Coat is Closet. East of Cupboard-with-Hanging-Coat is Front-Hall.
North of Front-Hall is Pool-of-Light. South of Front-Hall is Front-Lobby. East of Front-Hall is Sitting-Room. West of Front-Hall is Cupboard-with-Hanging-Coat.
North of Sitting-Room is Impressive-Vaulted-Hallway. South of Sitting-Room is Library-of-Evil-Books. West of Sitting-Room is Front-Hall.
East of Secret-Room is Weird-Cobwebby-Room.
North of Steep-Marble-Stairs is Impressive-Vaulted-Hallway. South of Steep-Marble-Stairs is Library-of-Evil-Books. Up of Steep-Marble-Stairs is Upper-Gallery. Down of Steep-Marble-Stairs is Cupboard-with-Hanging-Coat.
North of Dining-Room is Trophy-Room. South of Dining-Room is Study-with-Desk.
North of Deep-Cellar-with-Coffin is Cellar-with-Barred-Window.
North of Cliff-Path2 is Cliff-Path. South of Cliff-Path2 is Marsh.

[Sixth row connections]
North of Closet is Cupboard-with-Hanging-Coat.
North of Front-Lobby is Gloomy-Passage. South of Front-Lobby is Front-Porch.
North of Library-of-Evil-Books is Sitting-Room. South of Library-of-Evil-Books is Study-with-Desk. East of Library-of-Evil-Books is Steep-Marble-Stairs.
North of Study-with-Desk is Library-of-Evil-Books. South of Study-with-Desk is Weird-Cobwebby-Room. East of Study-with-Desk is Spooky-Room.
North of Weird-Cobwebby-Room is Secret-Room. East of Weird-Cobwebby-Room is Study-with-Desk.
North of Very-Cold-Chamber is Spooky-Room. South of Very-Cold-Chamber is Soggy-Path.
West of Spooky-Room is Study-with-Desk. North of Spooky-Room is Bottom-of-Spiral-Staircase. South of Spooky-Room is Very-Cold-Chamber.
North of Soggy-Path is Very-Cold-Chamber. West of Soggy-Path is Marsh.

[Seventh row connections]
North of Rubble-Strewn-Verandah is Near-Crumbling-Wall. East of Rubble-Strewn-Verandah is Front-Porch.
North of Front-Porch is Front-Lobby. West of Front-Porch is Rubble-Strewn-Verandah. East of Front-Porch is Sloping-Corridor. Up of Front-Porch is Upper-Gallery.
North of Front-Tower is Bottom-of-Spiral-Staircase. East of Front-Tower is Upper-Gallery.
West of Sloping-Corridor is Front-Porch. East of Sloping-Corridor is Upper-Gallery.
North of Upper-Gallery is Steep-Marble-Stairs. West of Upper-Gallery is Front-Tower. East of Upper-Gallery is Sloping-Corridor.
North of Marsh-by-Wall is Slippery-Steps. South of Marsh-by-Wall is Marsh.
North of Marsh is Marsh-by-Wall. South of Marsh is Soggy-Path2. West of Marsh is Cliff-Path2.
North of Soggy-Path2 is Soggy-Path. South of Soggy-Path2 is By-Twisted-Railing. West of Soggy-Path2 is Marsh.

[Eighth row connections]
North of By-Twisted-Railing is Soggy-Path2. East of By-Twisted-Railing is Path-Through-Iron-Gate.
West of Path-Through-Iron-Gate is By-Twisted-Railing. East of Path-Through-Iron-Gate is By-Railings.
North of By-Railings is Beneath-Front-Tower. East of By-Railings is Debris-from-Crumbling-Facade. West of By-Railings is Path-Through-Iron-Gate.
South of Beneath-Front-Tower is By-Railings.
North of Debris-from-Crumbling-Facade is Large-Fallen-Brickwork. South of Debris-from-Crumbling-Facade is Rotting-Stone-Arch. West of Debris-from-Crumbling-Facade is By-Railings.
North of Large-Fallen-Brickwork is Beneath-Front-Tower. West of Large-Fallen-Brickwork is Debris-from-Crumbling-Facade. East of Large-Fallen-Brickwork is Crumbling-Clifftop.
North of Rotting-Stone-Arch is Debris-from-Crumbling-Facade. West of Rotting-Stone-Arch is Large-Fallen-Brickwork.
West of Crumbling-Clifftop is Large-Fallen-Brickwork.

Book - Items

[Setup all the game items and their starting locations]
The painting is a thing in Hall-by-Thick-Wooden-Door. It is fixed in place.

The ring is a thing in Rear-Turret-Room. 
The description of the ring is "A valuable ring.".

The magic-spells is a thing in Library-of-Evil-Books.
The description of the magic-spells is "A book of magic spells. Using 'xzanfar' might be useful.".

The goblet is a thing in Trophy-Room.
The description of the goblet is "A silver goblet.".

The scroll is a thing in Room-with-Inches-of-Dust.
The description of the scroll is "The script is in an alien tongue.".

The coins is a thing in Front-Tower.
The description of the coins is "Valuable old coins.".

The statue is a thing in Sloping-Corridor.
The description of the statue is "A beautiful statue.".

The candlestick is a thing in Cupboard-with-Hanging-Coat.
The description of the candlestick is "A brass candlestick.".

The matches is a thing in Kitchen.
The description of the matches is "A box of matches.".

The vacuum is a thing in Large-Fallen-Brickwork.
The description of the vacuum is "A handheld vacuum cleaner.".

The batteries is a thing in Closet.
The description of the batteries is "A set of batteries.".

The shovel is a thing in Dark-Alcove.
The description of the shovel is "A sturdy shovel.".

The axe is a thing in Rubble-Strewn-Verandah.
The description of the axe is "A sharp axe.".

The rope is a thing in Debris-from-Crumbling-Facade.
The description of the rope is "A coil of rope.".

The boat is a thing in Marsh.
The boat is fixed in place.
The description of the boat is "A small boat.".

The aerosol is a thing in Spooky-Room.
The description of the aerosol is "A can of aerosol spray.".

The candle is a thing in Front-Hall.
The description of the candle is "A wax candle.".

The key is a thing in Weird-Cobwebby-Room.
The description of the key is "A brass key.".

The coat is a thing in Cupboard-with-Hanging-Coat.
The coat is fixed in place.
The description of the coat is "An old coat hanging in the cupboard.".

The door is a thing in Hall-by-Thick-Wooden-Door.
The door is fixed in place.
The description of the door is "A thick wooden door.".

The rubbish is a thing in Yard-by-Rubbish.
The rubbish is fixed in place.
The description of the rubbish is "Just some old rubbish.".

The coffin is a thing in Deep-Cellar-with-Coffin.
The coffin is fixed in place.
The description of the coffin is "A creepy old coffin.".

The books is a thing in Library-of-Evil-Books.
The books is fixed in place.
The description of the books is "Books of demonic works.".

The desk is a thing in Study-with-Desk.
The desk is fixed in place.
The description of the desk is "A desk with a drawer.".

The drawer is a thing in Study-with-Desk.
The drawer is fixed in place.
The drawer can be open or closed. The drawer is closed.
The description of the drawer is "A drawer in the desk.".

The wall is a thing in Study-with-Desk.
The wall is fixed in place.
The description of the wall is "A thin wall.".

The huge-door is a thing in Trophy-Room.
The huge-door is fixed in place.
The huge-door can be open or closed. The huge-door is closed.
The description of the huge-door is "A huge door.".

Book - Special Rules

After examining the desk:
	say "There is a drawer in the desk.";
	now the drawer is in Study-with-Desk;
	continue the action.

After examining the coat:
	say "That's creepy!";
	now the key is in the location;
	continue the action.

After examining the books:
	say "They are demonic works.";
	continue the action.

Instead of examining the magic-spells when the player carries the magic-spells:
	say "Use this word with care 'xzanfar'";
	continue the action.

After examining the scroll when the player carries the scroll:
	say "The script is in an alien tongue.";
	continue the action.

Instead of going west from Deep-Cellar-with-Coffin when the magical-barrier is true:
	say "A magical barrier to the west.";
	stop the action.

Instead of opening the drawer:
	say "Drawer open.";
	now the drawer is open;
	stop the action.

Instead of opening the huge-door:
	say "It's locked.";
	stop the action.

Instead of unlocking the huge-door with the key:
	if the player carries the key:
		say "The key turns!";
		now the huge-door is open;
		now the south exit of Trophy-Room is Weird-Cobwebby-Room;
		now the description of Trophy-Room is "Trophy room with huge open door.";
	otherwise:
		say "You don't have the key.";
	stop the action.

After taking inventory:
	say "Press any key to continue.";
	wait for any key;
	continue the action.

Book - Scoring

After taking a thing:
	increase the score by 1;
	continue the action.

Every turn when the score is 17:
	if the player is in Path-Through-Iron-Gate:
		say "You made it back to the gate with all the treasures! Double score!";
		increase the score by 17;
	else:
		say "You have everything. Return to the gate for final score.";

When play ends:
	if the score is maximum score:
		say "Well done! You finished the game."
